So I'm going to close htop because we're not going to build exactly that.
Instead we're going to build
a system monitor program that is roughly like htop though a little simpler.
To show you where we're going to start,
I'm going to open Visual Studio Code.
This is a Microsoft open-source coding editor.
I'm going to close some of the default files that open here.
I'm going to clone in the starter code for this project.
I'm going to hit "Control Shift P" which brings up the command palette.
I'm going to say the command that we want is to clone a repository and then I'm going to
copy the repository link for the starter code and I'm going to paste it here.
Oh, but nothing Pastes.
That's because with VNC in order to get
something to paste in we actually have to go to the sidebar over
here and we have to add what we want to paste it into our system-wide clipboard.
So now that we've added that in when I come back to Visual Studio Code,
I can paste in that repository link.
I can hit "Return" for some reason, well,
not for some reason but we're logged in as root right now.
So our home directory is root.
That's a bit of an odd place to do software development.
So I'm actually going to ask to do software development in slash home slash workspace.
I'll say, "Put our GitHub repository there."
Visual Studio Code asked if it would like me to open the clone repository.
I say, "Open the repository."
Now here we have the repository for our starter code.
I'm going to open up a terminal in Visual Studio Code.
It says, "Don't run code as root user."
I understand it's a little bit of an exception because we're in our Udacity workspace.
So I'm going to pull a little bit of a slight of hand here because we're in
the process right now of updating the starter code for this project.
So I'm actually going to check out
a different branch by the time you're working on this code,
all of this code should be in the master branch that you pull down by default.
But right now I'm going to check out the update branch.
Update here is just the name of a branch.
We could have named it anything.
We named it update because we're updating the code.
Now, we've switched to the update branch and you can see over here all of a
sudden we have lots of different directories
and a slightly more robust project organizational structure.
So now that we have the new starter code,
I'm going to run make build,
which should build our starter code,
and we'll see it's getting everything compiled.
The starter code should build out of the box although as you'll see,
even though it builds,
it doesn't work all that well.
Once it builds, it should create an executable in slash build slash monitor.
That's here.
So it's in the build directory and then there's
a monitor program that's the name of the executable.
When we run that,
we get something that looks a little bit like htop
but not as robust and nothing seems to actually be working.
We have the system date on the top.
Then we have this process data on the bottom but everything's blank.
So that's the starter code and what the starter code will look